Sir, how were you treated on your journey? I was
treated fine. I grew up in a small town in Texas with
about 35,000 people, and everyone was glad to have
me back. And with being from Texas and in our field
community in Texas, I found the people to be very
conservative.
They wanted to find out what I was all about. I did
not
receive a clear weapon opinion. From there,
I went to Camp Finland, so I was on the military
base, associating with military people. When
you're living on a base and working on a base,
you're not exposed or you don't have to deal with a
lot of those things. It was anti-military. I just
didn't have an opportunity to experience any of
those things. Obviously, the papers and the . But
you're a really nice lady .
Do you think the one-year tour of duty was
sufficient time to orient a man to the fighting in
Vietnam and then being able to utilize those
skills? Oh, absolutely. One year may be too long,
by the fact. First of all, you're supposed to have
your skills
before you go over there. There's also a training.
You have to train people once they get there.
You've got to hone those skills. I found that as far
as the wing captains went that had rifle
companies,
they probably, if they survived the first six
weeks to survive the entire tour, because you come
combat savvy.
I felt that I probably was at the peak of my
profession
about the third month of combat. And I stayed on
that crest for a couple of months. About the fifth
or sixth month, I felt that I had peaked out and
recovered and worked out. It's an awesome
responsibility to help 200, up to 280 people. When
you're out there by yourself with
no visible means of support. You're in charge of
everything. You're in charge of the shops by all
the time. I never got a full night's sleep. I had
them wake me up every hour and give me a situation
report. When you're deprived
of your sleep, you wear it on very quickly. But it
was absolutely necessary to make sure that that
machine
was up and running 24 hours a day. That was a
responsibility I couldn't delegate to anyone
else. So it's about a year long now. Depends,
obviously depends on the job, but as company
commander, I was not
mentally as strong in the sixth month
as I was in the fourth month. As far as the brain
goes, again, it depends on each guy. The guy that
leads the hunt, or patrols, or combat moves,
literally tunes out, in my view. That's the way he
avoids middle strength.
He disengages his brain. He's functioning. His
senses are alert to what's going on around him. He
tries not to think about, if I go around this tree or
come around this rock, that when I cross that
river, I'm going to get shot. He just can't think
like that. So I believe that they mentally came
down to it. They weren't in a trance, but mentally,
they're out of purity. And that's the way they
survived. Thirteen months is a long time to be over
there, knowing that at any time, the enemy could
engage you. You had to do something to prepare
yourself for that. You stated that after an
individual made six weeks here, they had a pretty
good chance of making it out of the country. What
about the short timers? How was their attitude and
how did they react in the field? The short timers
were very concerned.
The last six weeks, for most of them, I think, they
just feared that something would happen. When you
reach the midpoint of 13 months, it was called,
over the month, you're on the downhill side. Until
then, you really don't think about it
anymore. But, as you get closer to finishing up
your tour in combat, you start thinking about, am I
going to make it? Are we going to, what's going to
happen to me the next time we get into a fight? I
would say the last six weeks, the last two weeks
in particular. In your opinion, sir, what were the
major causes for losing the war? Lack of support
from the United States. There were many things
that contributed to that. The protesters, the
press that gave a lot of support to that, made it
miserable for everyone. Because
of the lack of support, I think the politicians
fought the war and let it off. Militarily, we won
the war, and we could have won the war, but the
political decisions,
labor, the battle was fought politically. Would
it possibly influence the outcome of the war in
favor of the United States? Anything, let's say,
within the South Vietnamese government?
The South Vietnamese government has
not been corrupt. They may have had more support by
the Vietnamese. They've
been able to take care of their own country. That
was not the situation. To me, it looked like a time
bomb waiting for its throat, even when I was there
in 1969. Those people had been in the war for many
years before the Americans went over there in
1965. It was business as usual. They walked in here
and made a common deal. They identified
that they had strong family ties. They had seen the
governments come and go. They were all corrupt.
They were taxed heavily. And I think
there was
very little support from the government. The war
was a way of life for them. It was a matter of time
until they settled in. Are there any further
comments you would like to make, sir? No, I don't
think so, Mary.